[{'b2e89334-33f9-11e1-825f-dabc29fd7071': 'NEW ORLEANS — Whenever a Virginia Tech offensive coach is asked how the most prolific receiving duo in school history came to be, inevitably the first road game in 2008 against North Carolina comes up.Midway through the first quarter, Virginia Tech had to call two timeouts in a row because then-freshmen Jarrett Boykin and Danny Coale couldn’t seem to line up right, and “they had those big eyes out there looking around,” Kevin Sherman, their position coach, said recently.Now that Boykin and Coale have only Tuesday’s Sugar Bowl remaining before leaving Virginia Tech with every major school record for a wide receiver, they’ve taken a different stance.“I still don’t think that was on us. Macho [Harris] was in the game and he lined up wrong,” said Boykin, as Coale sat next to him nodding in agreement.Just add that to the list of slights these seniors have had to overcome.Boykin has been the team’s leading receiver the past three seasons, using hands that need size XXXL gloves and a knack for out-maneuvering opposing cornerbacks in the air to set a single-season school record for receptions this year (57). He will end his career with more catches (180) and yards (2,854) than any other Hokies receiver.Coale, an Episcopal High graduate, leads Virginia Tech with 785 receiving yards this year. He is right behind Boykin in the school record books and became the team’s starting punter by the end of this season. Coach Frank Beamer has frequently marveled how “Danny just always seems to be open.”And yet neither warranted even honorable mention all-ACC status this year, a snub that quarterback Logan Thomas said made him “extremely upset” and left Beamer wondering about the media members who participated in the voting.In retrospect, Boykin said he recognizes the lack of notoriety is partly due to Virginia Tech’s offensive philosophy. The Hokies have always been known for their rushing attack, and this year was no different. Running back David Wilson earned ACC player of the year honors during a year when Thomas set multiple records for a first-year quarterback.“There’s just some things that we were held back from being able to show,” Boykin said, “that we’re just as good as [South Carolina wide receiver] Alshon Jeffrey and [Oklahoma State wide receiver] Justin Blackmon. I feel like they’re great athletes, but at the same time we’re right up there with them.“It’s great playing wide receiver here because once we throw the ball, you have opportunities to get big chunks of yardage. What we can’t do is we’re not going to catch 100 balls for 1,500 yards and 22 touchdowns.”The other issue is that neither has the sort of attention-grabbing personality or pedigree associated with big-time wide receivers these days.Coale has graduated with a degree in finance and was named the ACC’s top scholar-athlete this year. He speaks in measured tones reminiscent of a CEO and has yet to join Facebook or Twitter. Boykin is so quiet around the team facility that Beamer said he sometimes doesn’t notice him until he’s making catches on the practice field or in games.Coming out of high school, Coale was barely recruited. Before showing up to a camp in Blacksburg one summer, his only scholarship offer was from VMI, where his father is the head of strength and conditioning. Coale still jokes that when he spent his redshirt year (2007) on the scout team, former Virginia Tech wide receivers and future NFL wideouts Eddie Royal, Andre Davis and Josh Morgan “must have thought I was a walk-on. I prefer to just fly under the radar.”But their accomplishments haven’t gone unnoticed now that the clock is ticking on their careers. Quarterbacks coach Mike O’Cain said Thomas’s comfort level during his record-setting first year under center is a direct reflection of Boykin and Coale. “Not only are they gonna run the right route with the right timing, you know they’re gonna catch the ball,” he said.Years of lining up together has also created a special bond between the two, and it played out before the ACC championship game this year.Boykin was supposed to deliver the pregame speech, but always reticent about public speaking, he was afraid he might stutter and not be taken seriously. He asked Coale to take his place.“I’ve been through his struggles, he’s been through mine,” Coale said. “He’s a guy that I know I can count on, whether it’s five years from now, I just know I can count on him and he’ll be there. I know when I look back, part of my Tech experience is going to be him.”'}]
[{'749ec5b2-32f5-11e1-825f-dabc29fd7071': 'Set down your champagne and gaze west, as the bubbly planet Venus kicks off Sunday night’s first evening of the New Year.See this splendid planet about 23 degrees above southwestern horizon at sunset. You can’t miss this ultrabright beacon — about negative fourth magnitude — skimming over the treetops. By mid-January, Venus hangs 30 degrees above the horizon at sunset, and the planet sets about 8:10 p.m.On Jan. 24, a waxing young moon begins to ascend toward Venus in the western heavens. The lunar crescent sneaks closer to alluring Venus on Jan. 25, and by the evening of Jan. 26, the moon has passed by our neighbor planet.Like a 1950s teenager at a diner, Jupiter loiters in the east-southeast sky at dusk, in the Aries constellation. It’s a negative second magnitude (very bright) object. The waxing gibbous moon approaches this large planet Sunday and snuggles closer Monday evening. By Tuesday, the moon has passed Jupiter, but have no fear, we get an “instant replay” from Jan. 28-31.Bright enough to see from the light-polluted Washington area, Mars and Saturn, both zero magnitude objects, become the New Year’s late-night revelers. The reddish Mars rises just before midnight now in the east. A few hours later, at 1:30 a.m., the ringed Saturn ascends the east-southeast. By late January, both planets loiter in the Virgo constellation, as Mars will rise about 9 p.m. and Saturn appears just before midnight.Find fleet Mercury now before sunrise in the southeast, in the constellation Ophiuchus, hugging the horizon.With hot coffee, toast the Baby 2012 by viewing the Quadrantids meteor shower peak early Wednesday morning. The big, fat moon sets at 3:15 a.m., so very early risers could catch some falling stars between then and sunrise. The International Meteor Organization (www.imo.net) says the hourly rate could be 120, but, in all honesty, you’ll be lucky to spot a handful. If you spy them, they appear to emanate from the near the Big Dipper and Little Dipper constellations in the northeast. You might see a few errant Quadrantids up to Jan. 12, according to the IMO.Down-to-Earth events:Jan. 5 — “How Do Astronomers Know How Big Asteroids Are?” a lecture by astronomer Melissa Hayes-Gehrke, at the open house, University of Maryland Observatory, College Park. Weather permitting, see the night sky through telescopes after the lecture. 8 p.m., 301-405-6555. www.astro.umd.edu/ openhouse.Jan. 8 — “A Survey of Star Atlases,” presented by astronomer Cal Powell at the Northern Virginia Astronomy Club meeting, Room 80, Enterprise Hall, George Mason University, Fairfax. 7 p.m. www.novac.com.Jan. 14 — Guy Brandenburg explains “Making Your Own Telescope” at the National Capital Astronomers meeting, University of Maryland Observatory, College Park. 7:30 p.m. www.capitalastronomers.org.Jan. 14 — Stargazing at the National Air and Space Museum’s Public Observatory, adjacent to the museum building. 6:45 p.m. National Air and Space Museum, National Mall. Free. www.nasm.si.edu.Jan. 20 — Anne Lohfink, an astronomer who researches the physics of compact cosmic objects and their surroundings, speaks at the open house, University of Maryland Observatory, College Park. View the heavens through telescopes after lecture, weather permitting. 8 p.m. 301-405-6555. www.astro.umd.edu/openhouse.Jan. 28 — Neither Bieber nor Bono compare to authentic stars: “How Are Stars Born?” at the Montgomery College Planetarium, Takoma Park. 7 p.m. www.montgomerycollege.edu/departments/planet/.Jan. 28 — “Sand Dunes Throughout the Solar System,” a lecture by geologist Jim Zimbelman of the Smithsonian Center for Earth and Planetary Studies. This is part of the Smithsonian’s Stars Lecture Series. 5:45 p.m., Albert Einstein Planetarium, National Air and Space Museum, the Mall. After the presentation, stargazing at the museum’s public observatory (about 6:45 p.m.) www.nasm.si.edu .Blaine Friedlander can be reached at PostSkyWatch@gmail.com.'}]
[{'f2c10c06-2c0c-11e1-9952-55d90a4e2d6d': 'A developer who stands to gain millions by building headquarters for the state Department of Housing and Community Development in Prince George’s County owes Maryland more than $124,000 in back taxes, penalties and interest, according to state records.The Maryland comptroller’s office has filed several tax liens over the past seven years against Carl S. Williams for failing to pay state withholding taxes for employees at one of his companies. As of Dec. 28, the bill remained unpaid, state officials said.The liens stem from nonpayment of withholding taxes for King’s Kids Child Development, a division of a company where Williams was in charge.“When the corporate entity does not pay, we can go after the managing member,” said Sharonne Bonardi, the director of the compliance division within the comptroller’s office. “That’s why he was assessed personally for the tax debt.”Barb Clapp, a spokeswoman for the developer, said Williams filed an appeal over the back taxes Sept. 14, which the state confirmed this week. On Sept. 19, the state announced that it had selected him to develop the new headquarters near the New Carrollton transit hub.Williams is a principal of Grand Central Development, and he hopes to lead a team that will build the New Carrollton mixed-use development. The project, known as Metroview, would house the first state agency with headquarters in Prince George’s.  Clapp said Williams took over as executive director of St. Paul Development Corp., a nonprofit group that builds affordable housing in Prince George’s and owns the day-care center, in 2006. Some of the company’s tax troubles predate his appointment as executive director, she said. Clapp also said some payments were applied to taxes owed by St. Paul Development.“He didn’t know about some of it,” Clapp said. “When he learned, he filed an appeal.”This week, state officials said the balance includes $67,329.26 in taxes, $46,897.781 in interest and penalties of $9,895.60. The state would not provide a breakdown of when the taxes were incurred.The Carl Williams GroupBut the outstanding bill is just one of the financial problems that companies headed by Williams have faced.The charter of the Carl Williams Group, a development company founded in 2005 in Prince George’s, was revoked by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation two years ago for failing to file a 2008 property tax return with the state. Clapp said the company did not file a property tax return with the state because it did not own any personal property. As a result, the company’s charter was revoked. Clapp said the Carl Williams Group is no longer doing business.The Woodviews at St. Paul Limited Partnership — a division of St. Paul Development, which Williams heads — filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2008. Williams’s spokeswoman added that he is not personally liable for the bankruptcy of Woodview. The company ran into trouble with county officials, she said.“We got caught in the pay-to-play game of Jack Johnson, and our necessary county approvals were not approved because we would not pay,” Clapp said.And the Carl Williams Group was sued by UrbanAmerica, a real estate investment company, over the alleged nonpayment of a loan. Last year, the trial court entered a judgment against the Carl Williams Group for $9 million. Clapp said the loan at issue in the lawsuit stems from a $100 million project in the county that was never built. The Carl Williams Group is appealing, and UrbanAmerica, which sued Williams personally but lost, has also filed an appeal.Clapp said Williams has shepherded many projects in the county, including the Jericho City senior living project in Landover and the St. Paul Retirement Community at Addison in Capitol Heights. But, she said, many of the financial problems of his companies can be blamed on a sluggish real estate market and the play-to-pay culture in Prince George’s. Metroview, a mixed-use project that still needs financing, would be Williams’s largest project.The path to revitalizationAs part of a push to promote transit-oriented development, Gov. Martin O’Malley (D) announced last year the intention to move the housing agency from Anne Arundel County to a site near a Metro station in Prince George’s. O’Malley announced the selection of Grand Central Development and the location with much fanfare during a news conference in front of the New Carrollton Metro station in September.The state Board of Public Works still has to decide whether Grand Central Development should be awarded the 15-year, $40 million lease for the agency’s move to New Carrollton.According to state officials, the panel was supposed to consider the project before the end of the year, but the lease never made it onto the board’s agenda. Grand Central was one of 16 bidders for the project.Michael A. Gaines Sr., the assistant secretary of real estate for the Department of General Services, who has handled the requests for proposals for the relocation, did not return repeated calls to his office.Williams, a developer and executive director of St. Paul Development, spoke briefly about the DHCD development’s prime location, just 12 minutes by rail from the Baltimore-Washington International Marshall Airport, and his plans to build 442 apartment units, 22 percent of which will be affordable housing.‘Disconnect’ over tax liensWilliams will be joined by Tim Munshell of Montgomery County in developing Metroview, which includes 30,000 square feet of retail space, four floors of office space for DHCD and office space for the city of New Carrollton. The pair is also working on another multimillion-dollar, mixed-use project in Baltimore County.Munshell did not return a phone call or a message left with his company spokesman.The announcement of the development selection for DHCD came before Grand Central Development underwent a tax clearance review by the comptroller’s office.The compliance division within the comptroller’s office was unaware of the liens filed against Williams until they were brought to its attention by The Washington Post on Dec. 20.Bonardi, the director of that division, said her office searched for days and could not find any liens placed against Williams or any delinquencies against the Carl Williams Group.Joseph Shapiro, a spokesman for the office, was adamant that no liens were placed against Williams by the comptroller’s office.It was not until documents from the Prince George’s Circuit Court were provided to the state by The Washington Post that officials located the liens.Bonardi said there was a “disconnect” because the liens were under the federal identification number of the King’s Kids Development Center and Williams’s Social Security number.Sylvia Brokos, the manager of business tax collections within the comptroller’s office, said Williams’s back taxes would not necessarily disqualify him from a contract.She said all companies seeking state contracts must pass a tax clearance process that includes a search for back taxes and a review to make sure the company’s charter is in good standing.In Williams’s case, only Grand Central Development, which was formed in November 2010, would go through that process.“We do not look beyond that to the principal, not unless they are the sole proprietor,” Brokos said.Staff researcher Jennifer Jenkins contributed to this report.'}]
[{'d5966ad2-33f9-11e1-825f-dabc29fd7071': 'Towel draped over his head and shoulders, staring at the ground as he mouthed lyrics to the music blaring from his headphones, John Wall appeared flustered, angry and distant as he sat in the visiting locker room at Bradley Center.Wall had his worst game of the season — and arguably one of the worst of his young career — as the Washington Wizards lost to the Milwaukee Bucks, 102-81, on Friday and dropped to 0-3. The statistics told one side of the story — six points on 1-of-9 shooting, with seven assists and four turnovers — and Wall’s body language told another, as he was unusually disengaged and disconnected, even as his teammates attempted a fourth-quarter rally to cut a 26-point deficit down to single digits.Afterward, Coach Flip Saunders expressed disappointment in the best player on his roster for failing to fight through a challenging night.“No matter how bad you’re playing, you don’t want someone to look at you and say, ‘What’s wrong with you?’\u2009” Saunders said. “The only thing you can be consistent about is how hard you play, and with passion and energy. John has a tendency to get down on himself when he’s not making plays. We got down big. He got down. We’ve got to work as a team. He’s got to work on it too. As a leader, everyone is looking for him.”Wall often had trouble containing his emotions through adversity as a rookie, but his frustration with a ragged start to this season was encapsulated by a sequence with about five minutes left in the fourth quarter against the Bucks.Milwaukee called a timeout after reserve Beno Udrih made a layup and Wall glared at the hardwood, ignoring and leaving Ronny Turiaf, Hamady Ndiaye, trainer Koichi Sato, JaVale McGee and Kevin Seraphin stunned as they attempted to give him high-fives.Wall was hoping that this would be a breakout season for him, but he has gotten off to a thorny start, struggling to find a way to balance being a facilitator and a scorer and not doing particularly well at either one. He’s averaging just 13 points, six assists and 4.7 turnovers but also is shooting just 27 percent from the field.“I’m not really worried about myself getting going, I’m just trying to run the team as much as everybody wants me to do. That’s all I’m trying to do,” Wall said. “Everybody trying to say I’m trying to look for scoring, but I’m just trying to take open shots that I got. I know teams know what I want to do, they making it tough for me. I just got to make shots and trust that my teammates will make shots when they get open and when I find them.”The Wizards haven’t been able to support that trust, as they rank 29th in the league in field goal shooting (38.6 percent), making it hard for a player to get assists. Andray Blatche is admittedly “in a funk,” averaging just eight points on 11-of-41 shooting (26.8 percent) this season. In the past two games, Washington’s starting shooting guards — Jordan Crawford in Atlanta and Nick Young in Milwaukee — shot a combined 1 for 16.Wall begged Saunders to take out one of the starters as the Wizards got off to a slow start in Atlanta, then grew tired of playing setup man and scored eight consecutive points for the team. He has been a team captain since his first NBA practice and the Wizards respond to his demeanor, whether good or bad.But he is already growing impatient with the losses, especially with the team blowing a 21-point lead in an opening loss to New Jersey, getting routed in a wire-to-wire loss in Atlanta and failing to file the correct roster in another blowout loss in Milwaukee. In their past 127 minutes, the Wizards have been outscored by 66 points, and the schedule doesn’t get any lighter with a home-and-home, back-to-back set against Boston starting on Sunday at 6 p.m. at Verizon Center, followed by Orlando on the road and New York at home.“It’s getting tough,” Wall said. “We’ve just got to find a way to win. You don’t want to start the season 0-10 or 0-6 or nothing like that, so you got to find a way to win one of these games.”Saunders and assistant Randy Wittman spoke to the players after the loss in Milwaukee and veterans Maurice Evans and Rashard Lewis continued the conversation in a mini-players-only meeting afterward.“We got on each other,” Young said. “You don’t want to get used to losing, but we’ve got to stick together. You can’t have somebody mad every night. That don’t help the team. We’ve got to come together as a family. This is really all we’ve got in here.”Saunders said the team has to figure out something soon. “We don’t have a lot of time. We’re not going to say, ‘We’re going to get this figured out in practice.’ We can’t,” Saunders said. “Bottom line is, we’ve got to put people on the floor that are going to compete and play hard. If that happens to be that some of our most talented guys, they’re not the ones to do it, then they are not going to be able to play.”'}]
[{'2ee2b1ca-33d9-11e1-a274-61fcdeecc5f5': 'Early last week, a postcard advertising a rally for Mitt Romney arrived at the home of Pam Arnold Powers and her husband, Kelly. As undecided voters, the couple had grown accustomed to such invites. They regularly received mail from Rick Perry and Ron Paul, and Romney himself called several times a week, clogging up their voice mail with automated messages that began “Pamela, this is Mitt.”“They use our names!” said Ms. Powers, a gregarious 47 year old who, likewise, considers herself on a first-name basis with Mitt, Newt, Rick and the other Republican hopefuls.The Powerses started concentrating on the Iowa caucuses about a month ago, spending $200 on tickets to a Dec. 10 debate. They have spent days and weeks warming and cooling to candidates.They are trying to recapture the electricity they felt four years ago when Michelle Obama took Ms. Powers’s arm in front of the pork tent at the Iowa State Fair, the first step in their journey off the Republican rolls and into the fold of Obama voters.Now, political disappointment and personal progression have led them back to the GOP, but the Powerses are scrambling to find someone who possesses the attributes on their checklist — electability, passion, depth and strong moral values. Like the vast ranks of their ambivalent brethren who will determine the winner of the Iowa caucuses and possibly the Republican nominee, the Powerses are still having a tough time.“I’ve got to figure it out by Tuesday,” Ms. Powers said.The Romney rallyAt 7:10 a.m. Friday, Mr. Powers, a 50-year-old mortgage banker in tapered-temple glasses, arrived for the Romney rally outside a local supermarket in a red golf sweatshirt. His wife, who also thought the event would be held indoors, arrived soon after in a yellow sweater, black vest and paisley-printed slacks.Romney staff members offered them signs to hold. They declined, instead keeping their hands warm in their pockets.Romney’s bus arrived in an area of the parking lot marked off by upended shopping carts. The Powerses cheered as the candidate, his wife and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie took turns testifying to Mitt Romney’s love of America.As Romney thanked people for coming, Ms. Powers found herself deep in conversation with another undecided voter at the foot of the stage. They talked about Romney’s trouble connecting, Perry’s trouble speaking, Paul’s radicalism, Michele Bachmann’s inexperience and Rick Santorum’s fervor.The Powerses thawed for a few minutes in the supermarket and then drove their beige Saab downtown to give Newt Gingrich, who they had all but written off, a last look at a “Moms Matter Coffee Break” event.The couple found seats in the back of the small room decorated with Elvis album covers. On stage, GOP pollster Frank Luntz warmed up the audience by showing off his stars-and-stripes sneakers (“especially made for me by K-Swiss”) and asking undecided voters to raise their hands. The Powerses, like most in the room, lifted their arms.Moments later, Gingrich took the stage. As he spoke about how “in a different world it would have been great not to have been divorced,” Ms. Powers slowed the chewing of her gum. She nodded approvingly as Gingrich talked about how “rights come from our creator.”When Gingrich made the case that he is more electable than Romney (“I’m a more effective debater”) and decried the millions of dollars spent on negative ads to run his name through the mud, Mr. Powers momentarily stopped checking the photos on his phone to listen.At the end of the event, Gingrich choked up as he spoke about his mother’s death and the impact “the real problems of real people in my family” had on his policy thinking.Ms. Powers thoughts turned to her own mother, who had died on Christmas Eve 2009, after a battle with cancer. The ordeal, she said, strengthened her Catholic faith, which in turn led her to seek a Republican candidate who shares her moral values.When Gingrich finished speaking, his cheeks shining with tears, she clapped wildly.“People are going to go nuts on the crying, but that was as real as anything you can see,” she said as she left the coffee shop. “I thought Newt was off my ballot. But Mitt doesn’t make that connection.”The couple fueled up on moo shoo pork slices at Fong’s Pizza and talked about Santorum as a “a victorious underdog” and Romney as a “last man standing.”Mr. Powers lamented the “bombardment” of anti-Gingrich television ads from Romney-supporting super PACs. “It has influenced us,” he said unhappily. His wife excused Romney of any blame for the ads and then spotted one of Gingrich’s daughters walking into the restaurant. “You picked a great place!” she called out to her. Hearing no response, she turned back to the fortune cookies on the table.“Ooooh look!” she said, reading the fortune: “Linger over dinner discussions this week for needed advice.”‘No one talks like that’The couple stopped home to check voice mails (Dan Quayle called on behalf of Romney, Romney called on behalf of Romney) and changed into warmer clothes for the drive out to Marshalltown to see Santorum.As their car slid by acres of crushed pale cornstalk, Ms. Powers rebuked her husband for failing to photograph her “arm-in-arm with Mitt today” and to be ready with the camera “when Rick comes.”Each booth at the Legends American Grill had its own flat-panel television tuned to the Iowa State football game. In a space off the dining room, a small group of potential voters, outnumbered by the national media, sat waiting for the candidate. The Powerses squeezed into the back and craned their necks to see Santorum’s entrance. He wore an Iowa State sweater-vest and spoke under muted TVs tuned to C-SPAN, which showed him speaking, on a seven-second delay, to the voters in the room.Ms. Powers clapped vigorously as Santorum talked about “the crossroads of American civilization” and asserted that “I know life begins at conception.” As the event plodded on, her husband grew less interested, preferring to text friends as Santorum responded to short questions with long answers. After he spoke for an hour, audible sighs emanated from reporters in the room and a waitress adjusted the thermostat, which read 83 degrees. Santorum, standing before a lighted fireplace, kept talking and, at the one-hour 22-minute mark, he took the last question of the evening.“How will you conserve your integrity when you’re operating in the Washington machine?” Ms. Powers asked from the back. She maintained eye contact with Santorum throughout his lengthy answer. When the event broke up, she stepped into the dining room with a broad smile across her face.“Done!” she exclaimed, her face flush from the heat. “I know who I’m caucusing for. No one talks like that.”Her husband, less impressed, shrugged.On the drive back to Des Moines, night blotted out the barren fields, and the couple debated Santorum’s performance. “His answers are too long,” said Mr. Powers. “That’s the beauty of Rick Santorum,” his wife countered.They talked about his answer on Iran. “He said we’re going to blow ’em up,” said Mr. Powers. “I didn’t hear that at all,” Ms. Powers said.They compared his substantive answers to Romney’s patriotic “pep rally,” but then Ms. Powers suggested she hadn’t decided after all.“It would be interesting, at the very least,” Ms. Powers said, “to go see Mitt in that kind of venue.”'}]
[{'4db820a0-3251-11e1-8c61-c365ccf404c5': 'In this remote, sun-blasted corner of southern Yemen, there’s a battle raging that is as important to the United States as it is to this nation’s beleaguered government.Each day, American-backed Yemeni forces engage in a grueling struggle to retake territory from militant Islamists — a conventional army pitted against a guerrilla militia with grand ambitions to stage an attack on U.S. soil. Each day, the soldiers feel increasingly besieged.“We are like an island in a sea of al-Qaeda,” said Lt. Abdul Mohamed Saleh, standing at a checkpoint on a desolate highway that connects Zinjibar with the port city of Aden. “We are surrounded from every direction.”The battle is but one in a broader struggle that has upended Yemen over the past year and left the country badly fragmented. With pro-democracy demonstrators now in the 11th month of a populist uprising that has forced President Ali Abdullah Saleh to agree to step down, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and its sympathizers have taken full advantage of the turbulence.In May, they overran large swaths of Abyan province, including this regional capital. Today, they rule over significant territory in this strategic region, near important oil shipping lanes.The al-Qaeda affiliate has already targeted the United States several times, including sending parcel bombs on flights into the country last year. Its stated goal is to create an Islamic emirate in Yemen, which American officials fear could be used as a base to plan more attacks against the United States.That base may already be taking shape. A rare recent visit to Zinjibar, the first by a Western journalist since the Islamist fighters swept into the city, revealed just how entrenched the militants have become here.An easy takeoverAt the gate of the only military base left in this ghostly city, Ali al-Katib peered up and down the deserted road. Clutching a walkie-talkie and a Kalashnikov rifle, the Yemeni soldier looked as haggard as the battered landscape.“They’ve attacked us three times already today,” Katib said, his emotions rising.Saleh’s government has a mixed record of combating extremist groups. He is a nominal U.S. ally who has pledged to defeat al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP. But critics say his government is primarily responsible for the instability that has allowed the group and other militant organizations to thrive.Although the pro-democracy demonstrators have no sympathy for AQAP, the group is one of several regional forces that have seized on the chaos of the uprising to grab territory and power. Many fear that Yemen could face years of turmoil before a system emerges to unify the country.In the north, Shiite Houthi rebels control three provinces. In the south, secessionist voices are growing louder. And in the divided capital, Sanaa, armed tribesmen and defected military units control entire neighborhoods, driven by fears that Saleh plans to hang on to power. His family and loyalists remain in control of the security forces and hold key government positions.With Saleh’s government in disarray, the United States has stepped up operations against AQAP, using drone strikes to kill several of the group’s top officials, including Anwar al-Awlaki, the radical Yemeni-American cleric implicated in helping to motivate several attacks in the United States.But such a strategy has its limits in Zinjibar.Less than a mile from the highway stands Zinjibar’s main soccer stadium. Outside, a half-built apartment complex is riddled with holes from mortar shells. On a rooftop, soldiers peer from behind sandbags. Two tanks stand nearby. Inside the stadium, walls have crumbled from shelling; the artificial grass is littered with debris and bullets.The Islamists emerged in March, taking over the town of Jaar and nearby areas. By the end of May, they had entered Zinjibar. They seized government buildings and looted banks and military depots.Most troops, police officers and local officials fled Zinjibar, an ancient city that was once a major trading center with the Far East. Tens of thousands of residents fled as well, triggering a humanitarian crisis.According to Yemeni military commanders and residents, the militants number only 700 to 1,000, and include fighters from Sudan, Somalia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Syria. Some wear long hair and thick beards. They call themselves Ansar al-Sharia, or supporters of Sharia — Islamic law. AQAP leaders said this year that they were operating under that name.The ease of their takeover prompted Saleh’s critics to accuse him of purposely losing territory to convince the United States and Yemen’s neighbors that chaos would ensue if he were to step down. Opposition figures describe al-Qaeda’s presence in Abyan as exaggerated, a diversion by Saleh to remain in power.But the soldiers of Brigade 25, who live inside the military base, have no doubts about their enemy’s identity. The only government forces who did not flee, they have been pummeled almost daily by mortars, rockets and snipers.Wadhan Ali Said, a slim 20-year-old soldier, bears the scars of a sniper’s bullet in his back. He said he and his fellow troops lived on rice and well water for more than two months before U.S. planes dropped parcels of food into the base in September. On one day, the militants killed 10 soldiers inside the base, he said.Later in September, after reinforcements arrived, the soldiers managed to lift the siege. But the militants have kept up the pressure, moving in highly organized cells. They use loudspeakers outside the base in a psychological assault on the soldiers.“They say they are the followers of Osama bin Laden,” Said said. “They give us lectures on Islam. Then, they tell us they will enter the base tonight.”Yemeni security forces have unleashed an intensive campaign of aerial bombings and shelling in southern Yemen. They have sent large numbers of reinforcements, including some U.S.-trained counterterrorism units.Yet the Islamist fighters control more than half of this city, including its center. They dominate other parts of Abyan as well as neighboring Shabwa province, where they have imposed a strict interpretation of Islamic law. Al-Qaeda cells are also increasingly active in Aden, staging assassination attempts and suicide attacks.Gen. Muhammad al-Somli, the commander of Brigade 25, said the United States has been assisting with intelligence. But his soldiers lack night-vision goggles, sniper rifles and other military equipment to adequately fight the Islamists. The U.S.-trained counter-terrorism units were too small in number, he said. And his soldiers, he added, are not adequately trained to combat a guerrilla force. He also acknowledged that the government has lost much of its control over southern Yemen to the Islamists.“They are already acting like they are rulers of a state,” Somli said.Reminiscent of the TalibanThe streets of Zinjibar are eerily quiet. Houses are abandoned, shops and gas stations closed. There’s no electricity. The landscape is silent, a wasteland littered with bullets and graves. Not a single resident was seen in more than four hours spent inside government-controlled areas of the city.Most of the city’s inhabitants are 35 miles away, in Aden. They traveled with only the possessions they could carry. They have sought refuge there in dozens of schools, turning classrooms into makeshift homes.But even Aden may not be safe.“If we don’t manage to stop them, their next target will be Aden,” warned Brig. Awad al-Qatabi, the head of Yemeni National Security in the city.Those who fled Abyan brought with them disturbing stories about life under the Islamists that are reminiscent of Taliban rule in Afghanistan. Drinking alcohol is punishable by death. Praying is mandatory and monitored closely by the militants. Television is banned, as is any contact with Westerners.“Anyone who supports Saleh is considered an agent of America and the West,” said Salah Nasser Nashir, 34, a farmer, who fled in July.He was more afraid of the indiscriminate bombings by security forces than he was of al-Qaeda, echoing comments by others who fled Zinjibar. “We fled not because of al-Qaeda, but because the government was shelling us,” he said.Still others, though, fled the wrath of the Islamist militants. Maher Ali, 17, said he was caught two months ago stealing electric cables from a store. He explained to his jihadist captors that he was unemployed and hungry and that he needed money for food. They took him to a clearing. A man carried a bag of knives. They blindfolded Ali. A voice asked him which hand would he like to have cut off. Ali pleaded for mercy.“This is Allah’s law,” he heard the voice say, before the knife came down on his left wrist.More world news coverage:Russia arrests New Year’s protestersMaliki marks end of U.S.-Iraq pactIn Egypt, an act of courage that launched a revolutionRead more headlines from around the world'}]
[{'69654742-33d7-11e1-825f-dabc29fd7071': 'DES MOINES — Two days before the voting begins in the wildest Republican race anyone can remember, the GOP candidates for president were engaged in a frenzy of old-school retail politicking acutely aware that a poor finish in Tuesday’s Iowa caucuses would probably end some of their prospects.On Saturday evening, the Des Moines Register released a poll showing a highly volatile race, with former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney holding a slight lead at 24 percent among likely caucus attendees and Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) in second with 22 percent. But former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, showing a late burst of momentum that has brought him from the back of the pack to 15 percent, was poised to move into second place if he can continue gaining over the next two days.Meanwhile, three former front-runners were struggling to regain their footing, with former House speaker Newt Gingrich at 12 percent, Texas Gov. Rick Perry at 11 percent and Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) at 7 percent.Caucuses are notoriously difficult to predict, given the fact that they require voters to venture out on a winter night and spend an evening arguing politics with their neighbors, but the Register’s late poll has had a strong record of foreshadowing the results.In recent days, the candidates’ arguments have pitted voters’ pragmatism against their passions, with Romney representing the safe, establishment-approved pick and his rivals vying to be the conservative alternative.“This is a process not just of putting your name or your hand next to someone who you kind of like. It’s also selecting who our nominee ought to be, who you think could beat Barack Obama,” Romney told a crowd of hundreds Thursday afternoon as he stood on a chair in the faux “Music Man” set in Mason City.But on Saturday, as Santorum addressed about 50 people outside a library in Indianola, he insisted: “I understand they’re all saying who can win and cannot. Trust your own heart. Trust your head. Trust your gut. And vote for who you think is best.”Among the serious caucus contenders, only Paul was missing. He and his senator son, Rand Paul of Kentucky, will be back Monday to launch a five-county tour.Ron Paul has lately found himself at the top of polls, joining a procession of contenders — some credible, others less so — who have soared and fallen, often within a matter of weeks.Some have stumbled, spectacularly. Others have been pushed. Gingrich was hit by almost $3 million in negative advertising in Iowa from a Romney-aligned super PAC — an outside group barred from coordinating with his campaign.The volatility reflects Republicans’ fervor to pick their strongest nominee against a vulnerable president and the dissatisfaction and mistrust many conservatives, especially those who align with the tea party movement, feel toward Romney.Ralph Davey, 60, a retiree from Manly who came out to hear Gingrich speak at the local shopping mall last week, has been going back and forth over whether to support him or Romney.Romney “knows a lot about business, and he’d be able to create jobs. But he seems wishy-washy on issues. He seems to change with the circumstances,” Davey said. “I like his electability. He doesn’t have skeletons in the closet. Newt definitely does.”Romney’s late pushParadoxically, the tumult in the field and the fragmentation of the electorate may have worked to Romney’s benefit, creating an opportunity for him to prevail in a state where he was trounced four years ago.It was once expected that Romney would put forth no more than a token effort in Iowa, where he blew $10 million on a distant second-place finish in 2008. But as it became clear that a strong showing — even a victory — might be possible, Romney has put in a heavy campaign schedule here in the final days.Iowa has a history of knocking establishment GOP candidates down a peg, so if Romney can avoid that jinx he would be well situated going forward.Romney is the overwhelming favorite in New Hampshire, which holds its primary Jan. 10. And it is questionable how strong a threat Paul or Santorum would be over the long run. On the other hand, if Gingrich or even Perry were to get a bump out of Iowa, they could potentially pick up momentum.Romney originally planned to spend more time over the weekend in New Hampshire. But he was drawing large and enthusiastic crowds here, and Romney’s aides scratched that plan so he could dart back to Iowa. He added two afternoon campaign stops in the heavily Republican northwestern corner of the state, where he performed well in 2008, and he has scheduled four large rallies Monday in the state’s population centers.This campaign season has also, again, proved that experience is an asset when it comes to running for president. It is probably not a coincidence that two of the candidates best positioned for Tuesday’s caucuses — Romney and Paul — are the ones who have been there before.“People like Ron Paul and Mitt Romney are benefiting from the fact that they had infrastructure from the past that they could build on,” said Steve Scheffler, president of the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition.Many political veterans here expect turnout at the caucuses to top 2008’s record 118,000. But they worry that Iowa’s cherished, quirky process has begun to lose its intimate feel — and its influence.Iowans have seen far less of the candidates this year than they have in the past. The GOP contenders started their campaign operations here later and invested less of their time and resources. Instead of getting to know potential presidents in a leisurely fashion at their local diners and in church halls, Iowans are learning about the presidential field on television, just like the rest of America.That has contributed to voters’ uncertainty, Scheffler said.“The candidates haven’t been here, and their messages and their stands are similar,” he said. “You don’t have that one personality that sticks out from the others.”Adam Gregg, 28, a Des Moines lawyer, came to see Romney speak at an ice-cream parlor in Le Mars on Saturday.“Back in ’06 and ’07,” Gregg said, “you saw all the presidentials going to state legislative fundraisers. They were all over the Iowa circuit. That’s one of the starkest contrasts to me.”Santorum is one who has been doing things the old-fashioned way — more by necessity, because of his strapped finances, than by choice.Having made more than 250 appearances in the state over the past six months, “a guy like Santorum gave Iowans all across the state multiple opportunities to meet him and get to know him,” said Craig Robinson, a blogger who writes for the Web site the Iowa Republican.That patient, shoe-leather approach is paying off with an eleventh-hour surge in the polls for Santorum, who noted with some satisfaction that he has not had to spend the final days before the caucuses crisscrossing Iowa on frantic bus tours, as his rivals have.“Everybody’s sort of running around trying to get to all these counties. We’ve done all that,” he said during a leisurely interview Friday afternoon at his campaign headquarters in Urbandale.Later that evening, Santorum spent more than an hour at a sports bar, joining fans to watch Iowa State play Rutgers in the New Era Pinstripe Bowl.Evangelical vote splitOne significant difference from 2008 is the lack of political cohesion among evangelicals, whose mobilization was the key to former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee’s victory over Romney in 2008. This time around, however, there are at least four candidates competing for their votes.“No one candidate has brought all the values voters together,” Huckabee said in an interview. “And the splitting of that vote helps Romney.”The political climate may also diminish the influence of socially conservative voters here.“Economic issues are at the forefront now, even among conservatives, unlike they were four years ago,” said Tim Albrecht, who worked for Romney’s operation in 2008 but now is unaffiliated and is an aide to Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad.The Iowa caucuses have provided the first real test of the new world of outside money in presidential campaigns, unleashed by a Supreme Court decision last year.Spending by outside groups — technically independent of the campaigns but often run by some of the candidates’ closest allies — used to be virtually nonexistent in primary campaigns. This year, it has accounted for 43 percent of all spending on television ads.The tone of the ads in many cases has been far more negative than the candidates personally would dare to project when speaking about members of their own party.Almost none of the donors of that money have been revealed, and they probably won’t be until Jan. 31 — after the polls close in the Florida primary and after a nominee may already be chosen.The new rules have given a boost to candidates who already have a network of rich supporters — most notably Perry and Romney. This kind of support may soon be an unwritten requirement for a successful campaign.Gingrich initially believed that he could overcome the influence of negative advertising with a strong message and the kind of coverage he draws.“That’s the secret of the Gingrich campaign,” he said in an interview in late October. “The other guy gets to raise a lot of money to buy radio ads, and I get to do talk radio. It’s probably almost impossible to buy enough radio to offset what I can do with talk radio.”The most recent polls suggest that view may have been overly complacent.At one point Gingrich said, “I wouldn’t vote for the guy they are describing.”Staff writers T.W. Farnam in Washington and Amy Gardner, Philip Rucker and Rosalind S. Helderman in Iowa contributed to this report.'}]
[{'a9552634-2c06-11e1-9952-55d90a4e2d6d': 'Correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the Prince George’s County Police Department’s homicide closure rate for 2011. The rate was 66 percent, not 63 percent. In addition, because of incomplete information provided by Fairfax County police, the article and an accompanying graphic misstated the number of homicides in that county. There were 11, not eight. The number for Prince William County was also incorrect; it included two cases that were ruled justified. That county had four criminal homicides, according to police, not six. And D.C. police say that one of the 109 homicides recorded in the city in 2011 will be considered a 2012 case because the medical examiner did not issue a ruling until Jan. 1. This version has been corrected.The District and Prince George’s County had nearly the same number of homicides in 2011, a major departure from a high 20 years ago, when the city saw 325 more slayings than the county.It is a shift that reflects a double-digit drop in killings in the District from 2010 to 2011, with an especially noticeable downward trend in the most stubborn crime zones east of the Anacostia River. Just across the border, though, the homicide count in the neighboring communities in Prince George’s is surging, and the county as a whole saw a slight increase last year.There were 97 slayings in Prince George’s in 2011, four more killings than in 2010. In the District, the year saw 108 homicides, down from 132 in 2010 and the lowest homicide total in the city since 1963.“We share many of the same issues,” said D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier. “Quite a few of our victims come from Prince George’s County.”The police department’s 7th District east of the Anacostia River — neighborhoods including Barry Farm and Congress Heights — saw its annual homicide count drop 55 percent, with 24 fewer killings in 2011. Neighborhoods across the border in Prince George’s 4th District — including Hillcrest Heights and Oxon Hill-Glassmanor — saw their count more than double, up by 21 slayings.Law enforcement officials said the trend along the Prince George’s border reflects problems that migrated with those who left the District for inside-the-Beltway county neighborhoods, including issues connected with poverty and long-simmering neighborhood disputes.Some D.C. residents who still see frequent violence in their neighborhoods are weary, and say there’s not much to celebrate in the city’s declining homicide numbers.“I’m slow to get too excited,” said the Rev. Donald Isaac, executive director of the East of the River Clergy, Police, Community Partnership. “As soon as you begin to celebrate, it can reverse so quickly.”Prince George’s Police Chief Mark Magaw said crime has long run “back and forth” between the District and Prince George’s, and he has pushed this year for increased cooperation between the two police departments.“It’s one big community now,” he said. “No longer do we have the luxury of saying, ‘We only have to worry up to Southern Avenue,’\u2009” one of the borders between the city and county.Though killings in both the District and Prince George’s averaged about two per week during 2011, overall violent crime in the city fell by 10 percent and in the county by 12 percent.But the city had a 6 percent jump in property crime, largely due to a growing problem with thieves grabbing smartphones, computer tablets and other electronic devices from people and cars. “Snatching electronics is the battle of the century,” Lanier said. “It’s the single biggest problem I have in term of numbers.”Aiming for fewer than 100Mayor Vincent C. Gray (D) said that the decline in homicides in the District is encouraging and that the city should work to try to get to fewer than 100 slayings in 2012.“When people see crime going down like this, especially homicides, they are going to feel safer,” Gray said. “My sense is that people do feel safer. On the other hand, when you still see north of 100 homicides in the city, even though it’s a stark reduction, people are going to continue to be concerned about it. Some additional vigilance is going to serve you well, too.”Killings in the District have fallen rapidly in recent years, with 2011 bringing the lowest number of slayings in nearly 50 years.“When I started here in 1990, the two things that used to really bother me was that we were known as the murder capital of the world and the city of unsolved homicides,” Lanier said. “Our detectives and our police officers have done an amazing job turning that around. We are no longer either one of those things.”Homicides in Prince George’s have been generally trending downward as well, though at a slower pace.The rest of the region’s suburbs have far fewer homicides than the District and Prince George’s, with most counties recording 2011 homicide numbers roughly unchanged from the prior year. Fairfax County was an exception, with a decrease from 16 to 11.Though Montgomery County had just 16 homicides in 2011, in March it saw one of the year’s highest-profile murders in the region when Brittany Norwood, an employee at a Bethesda Lululemon yoga store, fatally bludgeoned and stabbed a co-worker, Jayna Murray.And in the wealthier neighborhoods of Northwest Washington, where homicides are rare, three killings drew wide attention: a teen was shot on a busy street in Georgetown on Halloween night; socialite Viola Drath was killed in her Georgetown rowhouse in August, allegedly by her husband; and in November, a man was gunned down outside a nightclub in Dupont Circle.The Northeast quadrant of the city, covered by the 4th and 5th districts, ended the year with a combined eight more killings than in 2010.Area crime watchers say they’ve seen violence steadily shift from the District into Prince George’s.The migration of many of the District’s poorer residents to inside-the-Beltway communities in Prince George’s has been happening for years, fueled by the District tearing down some public housing, said former D.C. police chief Isaac Fulwood Jr., who led the department in the early 1990s, when the city had nearly 500 homicides a year.That shift has had lasting effects, he said.“People from D.C. that had to move tended to move to Prince George’s County, and they took with them the things that poverty brings: Lack of access to everything,” said Fulwood, who is now chairman of the U.S. Parole Commission.The Prince George’s police department, which has more than 2,000 fewer officers than in the District, was left to deal with neighborhood disputes that people brought with them, as well as new beefs created in the large apartment complexes in Prince George’s.“Alabama Avenue, Stanton Road subsidized housing, all of that is gone,” Prince George’s Deputy Chief Craig Howard said. “Now when you ride through those areas, there are townhouses, single-family homes.”Last year’s killings in Prince George’s did not seem to follow any common thread, officials said. Young men and women sometimes killed one another in petty disputes.The majority of the killings in Prince George’s happen inside the Beltway, a more urban setting than the rest of the county. Because Prince George’s has a larger overall population than the District, its homicide rate was lower than the city’s, with about 11 killings per 100,000 residents, compared with about 17 per 100,000 residents in the District.Closing casesAcross the nation during the first half of last year, the homicide count increased by about 1 percent for cities the size of the District, and remained the same for counties such as Prince George’s, according to FBI crime statistics.Lanier, who hoped to have fewer than 100 homicides in the District in 2011, said she remains frustrated by the numbers. “We’re not where we need to be until we have less than 50,” she said.The Washington Post’s homicide count includes criminal killings within the borders of the city or the county, but does not include killings that officials have ruled justified. Prince George’s homicide numbers last year included one killing investigated by Laurel police and one on the Bowie State University campus.Lanier said the District had fewer gang-related homicides than in prior years. Most killings happened amid personal disputes, often stemming from squabbles at nightclubs where people had been drinking, she said.She added that her department’s homicide closure rate is about 94 percent, which sends a message to criminals.“Word travels pretty quickly when a homicide happens and an arrest is made,” Lanier said. “Your risk of being caught is pretty high if you commit a homicide in D.C.”Prince George’s police’s homicide closure rate was 66 percent last year, a slight increase over 2010.In Prince George’s, 16 people were killed in January, including a teenager who used to cook eggs for his 3-year-old brother, an ice cream truck driver and a University of Maryland student who tutored athletes. But by year’s end, overall crime had dropped compared with 2010, with violent crime down about 12 percent and property crime down about 10 percent.Lanier’s biggest success was in the 7th District, which has regularly led the city in killings and some other crimes. In 1993, the 7th District alone had 133 homicides. Last year it had 20.“A lot of it is the officers being out there, being visible,” 7th District Commander Joel Maupin said. He said officers continue to take guns off the streets, and often blanket neighborhoods with extra patrols when they get a tip that violence might be coming.It is essential, he said, to make arrests in crimes such as robberies and burglaries because it prevents future violence.“Removing these individuals from the streets and doing it quickly reduces crime,” Maupin said.Isaac, the clergyman who works in the same neighborhoods as Maupin, said his group visits every family that loses someone to violence, offering burial support, grief counseling and other services. “Even if you have one homicide a month, it’s impacting out there,” Isaac said.Staff writer Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.Read more local news from The Washington Post:Robert McCartney: What will happen in 2012?In Va., an abundance of offbeat billsMetrobus employees: Tight schedules don’t allow for bathroom breaksVincent Gray focuses on future after tough first year in office'}]
[{'7cecbc12-33de-11e1-a274-61fcdeecc5f5': 'Mike Shanahan will close his 28th season as a coach in the NFL on Sunday, when his Washington Redskins play what is essentially a meaningless game in Philadelphia. And though he has seen almost everything in pro football — he has been hired and fired, made and missed the playoffs, won and lost the Super Bowl — he has never faced the circumstances he does now. Whatever happens against the Eagles, Shanahan will have back-to-back losing campaigns for the first time in his 17 full seasons as a head coach.For the Redskins, who haven’t had consecutive winning seasons since 1991-92, such is life. But for the man who was hired to overhaul the entire organization, this is new.“I couldn’t have handled it earlier in my career,” Shanahan said Friday, not long after the Redskins practiced for the final time this season. “You don’t know the big picture. You’re just trying to survive. Unless you’ve been with different programs or organizations that have been down or have been up, you can’t really relate to where you’re at now. I can relate to this.”Shanahan opened his Redskins tenure by going 6-10 in 2010. Win Sunday, and he only matches that record. Lose, and he has his worst record as a head coach. Jim Zorn — whose tenure running the Redskins was mocked from near and far — won 12 games in his two seasons with Washington. The Redskins must win Sunday for Shanahan to match that.Yet ask Shanahan to take stock as he winds down the second of two difficult seasons, and he is unwavering.“I feel very good about this football team and the direction we’re headed,” he said, “because we’ve got the right people.”‘We’re doing it right’Regardless of Sunday’s outcome, the Redskins will finish in last place in the NFC East for the fourth consecutive year. Yet Shanahan can sit behind his desk — tape of a practice session frozen on a television screen over one shoulder, the Redskins’ entire depth chart on the wall he faces — and emphatically restate his belief that the franchise he oversees will win, and soon. He does so, he said, because he can draw on all those experiences, good and bad. What others see? How others evaluate his team? It doesn’t matter to him.“He doesn’t let perception become reality,” said his son Kyle, the Redskins’ offensive coordinator. “He knows what he’s doing. All of us know what we’re doing, but the difference with him is, he’s so strong in his personality and he’s had so much success his whole career, he’s seen it all. He knows when things are done right, when things are done wrong. And he knows we’re doing it right.”There are, Mike Shanahan believes, several aspects to “doing it right,” many of which occur far from the practice field. For the past several weeks, he has begun many mornings by watching a half-hour of film on college quarterbacks, a different one each day, maybe 70 or 80 plays. It is a window into his world. The Redskins clearly are searching for a quarterback to eventually replace current starter Rex Grossman. And Shanahan will have the most significant role in selecting that player, be it through free agency or the college draft, this year or the next or the year after that.“The key is you have to keep the right people coming in through the draft, through free agency,” Shanahan said. “.\u2009.\u2009. You can’t make a lot of bad decisions. You’re going to make some, but if you do, admit it was a bad decision and move on.”That, essentially, is what has happened at quarterback in Shanahan’s two seasons in Washington. In 2010, he traded for Philadelphia’s Donovan McNabb, wasn’t pleased with the results, then traded him away after one season. He started Grossman when the 2011 season opened, benched him during a four-interception outing against the Eagles in October, and inserted John Beck. Beck led one touchdown drive and moved the ball in that fourth quarter despite playing without left tackle Trent Williams, left guard Kory Lichtensteiger and tight end Chris Cooley, all of whom were injured earlier in the game.Beck started the next three games — a decent performance at Carolina, a disastrous one against Buffalo in which he took 10 sacks, and a jittery follow-up against San Francisco when he got rid of the ball too quickly. All three were losses. Offensive players, quietly and not, expressed a preference for Grossman. A week later, Shanahan turned back to him. Entering Sunday’s game, Grossman is tied for the league lead with 19 interceptions.“You make [the decisions] based on what you see,” Shanahan said. “If John didn’t play the way he did for that quarter [against Philadelphia] — the drives, all that — then we wouldn’t have gone to him. .\u2009.\u2009. You want to do the best thing for your organization. Does John have a chance to be that No. 1 guy? We felt like we had a good feel for what Rex was and what he was doing. But losing those three starters, are you better off with a quarterback that’s a little more mobile? We didn’t know that.”Limiting mistakesThe episode raised questions about Shanahan’s acumen as a talent evaluator, in no small part because he said, in a moment of bravado, that he would stake his reputation on Grossman and Beck. But even as the Redskins continue their search for stability and stardom at quarterback, Shanahan believes the structure for evaluating who will be next, at any position, is in place.Scott Campbell, the director of player personnel, oversees the college scouting process. Morocco Brown, the director of pro personnel, is heavily involved in evaluating potential free agents. Every position coach will have input on potential draftees and free agents. Shanahan said he does not feel the need to bring in another personnel man.“The thing that people think is that I’m sitting here doing all the evaluating,” he said. “.\u2009.\u2009. My main thing is I get everybody involved. That’s how you eliminate mistakes. I’ve got to feel comfortable. They’ve got to feel comfortable. I’ve been doing this thing a long time, and I’ve made my share of mistakes. You have to learn how to limit mistakes.”Beginning with last year’s draft and free agency, Shanahan believes the Redskins have limited theirs. Coaches believe the shift from a 4-3 defensive alignment to a 3-4 has gone well because they correctly evaluated free agent acquisitions Barry Cofield and Stephen Bowen and first-round draft pick Ryan Kerrigan. They also believe second-round pick Jarvis Jenkins, a defensive lineman who missed the entire season with a knee injury, will have a big impact in 2012, further strengthening a front seven that has helped the Redskins move from 31st in total defense a year ago to 13th this season.“You’re changing not just one guy; you’re changing all 11 guys,” defensive coordinator Jim Haslett said. “.\u2009.\u2009. You’re really starting it over from square one last year. And we made great progress, but we got to keep working at it. We got to keep getting better at it.”That, Shanahan believes, will happen — and soon. He can tick off the plays from 2011 that still knock around in his mind — a third-and-21 conversion that allowed Dallas to turn a win into a loss, a missed field goal in overtime of the second Dallas game, an offensive pass interference call that negated a game-tying touchdown against New England, five losses by one touchdown or less — and build his case that his last-place Redskins aren’t terribly far from first.“You win those games, we’re playing for something right now,” Shanahan said. “You’ve got to keep things in perspective.”How Shanahan does that, players and coaches say, does not change. Not from day to day. Not from week to week. And not from season to season, regardless of how difficult things become.“He works in every aspect of it a lot more than I realized, from personnel to defense to special teams to offense, but he doesn’t try to control everything,” Kyle Shanahan said. “He makes everyone accountable. .\u2009.\u2009. If the players mess up in the game, and we didn’t put them through that situation, it’s definitely not their fault. It’s on us all the way. He coaches his coaches hard, which makes us better coaches.”Eventually, though, that style must lead to wins. Right now, an offseason full of questions awaits: Who will be the quarterback? Who will be drafted? Is Mike Shanahan the right man to make the decisions? But for Shanahan, all that chatter amounts to so much white noise. Forget last place. Forget an 11-20 record. And most of all, forget the unrelenting analysis from the outside that goes along with it.“I’m impervious to it,” he said. “You have to be, because you have to have a plan. .\u2009.\u2009. What you have to have is belief in what you’re doing. And I do, because I’ve been doing it for a while.”'}]
[{'153127ee-341e-11e1-825f-dabc29fd7071': 'COLUMBUS, Ohio —  As the Washington Capitals headed to their dressing room after 40 minutes of play on Saturday night, some players slammed their sticks in the tunnel while others threw their heads back and stared at the ceiling. It looked as though the team’s 2011 might end with a whimper against the worst team in the NHL.A furious third-period comeback instead launched Washington into 2012 with its first three-game winning streak since October.Three goals in the span of 2 minutes 53 seconds erased a two-goal deficit and fueled the Capitals to a 4-2 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets at Nationwide Arena. It marked just the third time this season that Washington has rallied to win a game after trailing entering the third period.The victory improved the Capitals to 5-2-1 in their past eight contests and gave them a much-needed two points to complete a run of three wins in four nights. Washington (20-15-2) holds 42 points but is sitting outside the Eastern Conference playoff picture in ninth place.“For a while here we were going win one, win two, lose a couple — we were going back and forth,” defenseman Dennis Wideman said. “We needed to string some together. The top teams are starting to pull away from us and we’re getting into that time of year where you need to crank it up and start running some wins together to try to get back up there were we need to be.”Columbus, which has just 10 wins in 38 games, outworked the Capitals through the first two periods and carried a two-goal advantage into the final period of regulation. No one in the visitors’ dressing room was pleased with the effort. But rather than accept a subpar fate, Washington opted to throw everything it had at the Blue Jackets.“We had nothing to lose,” Coach Dale Hunter said. “We were down 2-0, it’s an all-out blitz and the guys did a great job skating, playing hard, never quit, and it’s a credit to them.”Hunter wanted pressure from all areas, with defensemen pinching to help keep offensive play alive. Ovechkin began the onslaught when he recorded his first goal of the night 4:23 into the third. Though scored as unassisted, his one-timer from the left faceoff circle that broke Steve Mason’s shutout bid was set up by a slap pass from Wideman.The defenseman set up another tally when he found Alexander Semin, whose wicked wrister at 6:48 evened the score at 2 during four-on-four play while the Capitals’ Dmitry Orlov and Grant Clitsome of Columbus were in the penalty box for matching roughing minors.Twenty-eight seconds later Wideman added a goal of his own, his first in nine games. The blast of a slap shot, which also came during four-on-four play, deflected off a Blue Jacket’s stick to beat Mason (22 saves) and stood as the game-winner.Ovechkin added his second of the night and 16th of the season as insurance with just less than nine minutes remaining in regulation with a slap shot on the power play. The star left wing has seven goals in the past eight games.“Everybody was upset how we playing [in the first two periods]. I don’t think we play at all our game,” Ovechkin said. “So we just play hard and again this kind of win that we need and all the momentum on our side.”Until the final period, though, the contest was hardly under the Capitals’ control. The game featured choppy play with turnovers aplenty, an abundance of whistles and more than 34 minutes of scoreless action.Early in the game, the Blue Jackets showed a willingness to win battles for the puck in corners and along the boards, forcing the issue against Washington, which looked beleaguered in its second game in as many nights.As the first period wore on, Columbus (10-23-5) gained some momentum and in the final five minutes of the period peppered netminder Tomas Vokoun (35 saves) with shots from all angles and speeds. The veteran goaltender remained composed and helped Washington reach the intermission in a scoreless tie.In the second, what was already a slow-moving contest regressed to more of a crawl as whistles for offsides, high sticks, icings or shots off the netting occurred with stunning frequency. With the play continuing in spurts, the first goal grew in importance, and Columbus got it when a turnover by Jason Chimera turned into a goal by John Moore at 14:47 of the second.Samuel Pahlsson made it 2-0 with just 34.9 seconds remaining in the second, but that tally, which could have set Washington on its heels, galvanized the group into making sure it didn’t let the week of progress unravel in one night.“It’s a big win for us. Losing here would have erased the big effort against Buffalo and Rangers earlier this week,” Vokoun said. “We need these points. We’re not sitting in the second or first place where we can say, ‘Well we have a nice comfortable cushion.’ We’re actually outside the playoffs so we need every point we can get.”Capitals note: Mike Green missed a 23rd consecutive contest with a strained right groin muscle. He made the trip with the team, however, and took part in an optional on-ice workout Saturday.'}]
